ficiency in mathematical reasoning is inherent, or merely a result of insufficient exposure to high-quality mathematical data. To explore this, we developed an automated method for generating high-qua
gh-quality mathematical data. To explore this, we developed an automated method for generating high-quality, supervised mathematical datasets. The method carefully mutates existing math problems, ensu
e Carlo sampling in the highly-irregular symbolic space. Empirical experiments demonstrate the high quality of data generated by the proposed method, and that the LLMs, specifically LLaMA-2 and Mistra
on whether LLM’s subpar reasoning capability is inherent or due to the the extreme scarcity of high-quality mathematical datasets [10–13]. As an initial step towards answer this question, a data gener
As an initial step towards answer this question, a data generation framework that could create high-quality math datasets is required. To this end, current two lines of research struggle in the divers
address this dilemma, we propose a novel neuro-symbolic framework that automatically generates high-quality, supervised mathematical data. The merit of this paradigm lies in leveraging both neural and
, what is the width of the garden in feet? Generated Q & A in natural language Formalize Mutate A: 1InformalizeSolveMutate… …Q: A rectangle has a perimeter of 30 units. The length of the rectangle is 
poration of more difficult problems consistently improves the LLM’s reasoning capability. Empirical evaluation on GSM8K [10] and MATH [11] demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method. Partic
Turbo (by 2.4%), a proprietary model with an order of magnitude larger parameters. Additionally, we evaluate the scalability of our method, and observe consistent performance improvements, as the size
s operated. Specifically, we adopt the SMT-LIB language [19], a standard notation compatible with prevalent SMT solvers (e.g., Z3 [20], CVC5 [21], and MathSAT [22]). It can also be easily extended for
riable, ite denotes the if-then-else structure, foo refers to an interpreted function (e.g., trigonometric, logarithmic or user-defined ones) on the domain, and g and h represent any function of inter
 b, c, d, e ∈ N+ However, such a strategy is non-trivial in practice. The first challenge lies in thevalidity aspect, i.e., the math problem is often carefully designed, and thus a random mutation may
enge of informalization lies in ensuring aconsistent conversion, i.e., the natural language problem informalized by GPT-4 should align with the formal solution given by symbolic solvers. Since it is d
ifficult to directly measure this consistency, we instead use GPT-4 to generate a solution for each informalized problem, and then calculate the consistency rate between the solutions from GPT-4 and t
he consistency rate between the solutions from GPT-4 and those from symbolic solvers as a surrogate metric. Furthermore, we observe that, if the problem is incorrectly informalized, GPT-4’s solutions 
symbolic solvers as a surrogate metric. Furthermore, we observe that, if the problem is incorrectly informalized, GPT-4’s solutions almostly cannot be confirmed by symbolic solvers (i.e., zero false p
er a stronger instruction to the LLM, and also in- troduce the randomness when aided by random retrieval. (3) Comment generation. Recognizing that GPT-4 is unfamiliar with SMT-LIB’s prefix ex- pressio
ifferent patterns. The effects of some typical patterns are shown in Table 1, where the results are evaluated on 1,000 problems randomly sampled from GSM8K. The basic pattern in Example 1 yields a con
ar mathematical reasoning benchmarks: GSM8K [ 10] and MATH [11]. GSM8K is a dataset comprising high-quality grade school math problems, which contains 7,473 training data and 1,319 testing data. MATH 
 Additionally, we include two mathematical reasoning datasets, i.e., SV AMP [12] and ASDiv [18], to evaluate the out-of-domain generalizability of the models fine-tuned on the data generated from GSM8
nstruct our dataset. Each generated math problem consists of a natural language problem description informalized by GPT-4 (version 0710), a final answer outputted by the symbolic solver, and a reasoni
as well as the Mistral 7B base model. The fine-tuned models, as well as the comparison methods, are evaluated on the GSM8K and MATH datasets. 6 Table 2: Performance comparison among existing mathemati
K 79.0 30.4 84.1 33.7 86.8 37.3 ∆ ↑ 10.6 ↑ 10.6 ↑ 10.1 ↑ 11.3 ↑ 3.6 ↑ 4.3 † Model performance is re-evaluated using Pass@1 of CoT prompt. As shown in Table 2, our approach achieves the best performanc
TH augmented data, respectively. The performance of fine-tuned models are given in Table 3. We also evaluate the models on two out-of-domain datasets, SV AMP and ASDiv. The results confirm the efficie
QA (MMQA) with the same data bud- gets. The models are fine-tuned using LLaMA-2- 7B base model, and evaluated on GSM8K, MATH, SV AMP, and ASDiv datasets. The results illusrate the high quality of our 
ase model, and evaluated on GSM8K, MATH, SV AMP, and ASDiv datasets. The results illusrate the high quality of our generated data. Training Dataset PerformanceMethod GSM8K MathGSM8K Math SV AMP ASDiv 
hance the reasoning performance of LLMs. To further improve the few-shot prompting, the prompt retrieval is proposed to automatically select high-quality examples [46, 47], while the prompt compressio
rther improve the few-shot prompting, the prompt retrieval is proposed to automatically select high-quality examples [46, 47], while the prompt compression is explored to include more examples in rest
. It instructs ChatGPT and trains a new LLM to rephrase the problem, equipped by a reward model for evaluating the quality of generated problems. Combining the rephrasing of problems and answers toget
ChatGPT and trains a new LLM to rephrase the problem, equipped by a reward model for evaluating the quality of generated problems. Combining the rephrasing of problems and answers together, MuggleMATH
ion mechanism that ensures both the validity and diversity of the generated problems. Moreover, the quality of reasoning paths is also guaranteed by the symbolic solvers. Tool-based Method. Tool-based
hlighted here. 7 Conclusion This paper explores the question of whether sufficient exposure to high-quality mathematical data could enhance LLMs’ inherent mathematical reasoning capability. We identif
e propose a neuro-symbolic framework that initially generates formal mathematical problems and then informalizes them back into natural language versions. By casting the data generation into the forma
ations and enhance the capability of symbolic solvers to support more types of problems, such as inequality problems. Our goal is to offer a data generation framework to automatically generate high-qu
nequality problems. Our goal is to offer a data generation framework to automatically generate high-quality, supervised datasets for LLMs. We expect that our neuro-symbolic data generation framework c
n Wu, Linyi Yang, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Xiaoyuan Yi, Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, et al. A survey on evaluation of large language models. ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology, 2023. [
ieyu Zhang, Satyen Subramaniam, Arjun R Loomba, Shichang Zhang, Yizhou Sun, and Wei Wang. Scibench: Evaluating college-level scientific problem-solving abilities of large language models. arXiv prepri
23. [8] Paulo Shakarian, Abhinav Koyyalamudi, Noel Ngu, and Lakshmivihari Mareedu. An in- dependent evaluation of chatgpt on mathematical word problems (mwp). arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13814, 2023. [9
aao Chen, Jindong Wang, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Diyi Yang, and Xing Xie. Dyval: Graph-informed dynamic evaluation of large language models. CoRR, abs/2309.17167, 2023. [10] Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, M
RR, abs/2310.06825, 2023. [18] Shen-Yun Miao, Chao-Chun Liang, and Keh-Yih Su. A diverse corpus for evaluating and developing english math word problem solvers. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeti
sing Systems, 35:3843–3857, 2022. [35] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual me
022. [35] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association for 
yuan Li, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Hao Cheng, Kai-Wei Chang, Michel Galley, and Jianfeng Gao. Mathvista: Evaluating mathematical reasoning of foundation models in visual contexts. In Proceedings of the 12t
lving and removing a variable (e.g., rachel_budget = 500). Then, we derive the new problem with its informalized version. Furthermore, we present another example, specifically Example 3, sourced from 
nse that appropriately completes the request.\n\n### Instruction:\n{instruction}\n\n### Response:\n Evaluation Details. We evaluate each fine-tuned model using a zero-shot evaluation protocol with the
completes the request.\n\n### Instruction:\n{instruction}\n\n### Response:\n Evaluation Details. We evaluate each fine-tuned model using a zero-shot evaluation protocol with the corresponding recommen
ruction}\n\n### Response:\n Evaluation Details. We evaluate each fine-tuned model using a zero-shot evaluation protocol with the corresponding recommended instruction template. Our model is evaluated 
zero-shot evaluation protocol with the corresponding recommended instruction template. Our model is evaluated using the following instruction template Prompt 2, which is consistent with our training i
o compare our models and existing mathematical reasoning models using DyVal [9] datasets to further evaluate the generalization ability of our models. DyVal is a flexible evaluation protocol for dynam
yVal [9] datasets to further evaluate the generalization ability of our models. DyVal is a flexible evaluation protocol for dynamic evaluation of LLMs, which generates evaluation samples with controll
luate the generalization ability of our models. DyVal is a flexible evaluation protocol for dynamic evaluation of LLMs, which generates evaluation samples with controllable complexities using directed
our models. DyVal is a flexible evaluation protocol for dynamic evaluation of LLMs, which generates evaluation samples with controllable complexities using directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). We focus on 
bing the architecture fully might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with th
 state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis of Normality of errors is not verified. • For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or figures symmetric error
. • For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative error rates). • If e
 authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other ha
